# DS3000FinalGroup12
Link to .ipynb submission: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/10BX1T4sZvYMD7QciLV5qZXKI08SBNRA5<br>
*Executive Summary*<br>
According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, earthquakes cause an estimated $4.4 billion in economic damages each year in the U.S [1]. Understanding earthquake features that impact total damage costs could be crucial to assist in future preparation and recovery from earthquakes. In this project, our focus is on understanding the effects of different features of an earthquake, such as magnitude, and location latitude/longitude, in predicting the monetary value of the damage caused by the earthquake. The data from this project was taken from NOAA, and the main classification algorithms that were used for analysis were K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, Logistic Regression, Gaussian Naive Bayes, and Decision Trees. The classification algorithm that we found best predicted damage was K-Nearest Neighbors. This model was trained using the percent split approach, and the predicted results were compared with actual target variable, "Total Damage Description", for validation. We trained two models using KNN, a binary classification that predicts the occurrence of economic damage, and a non binary classification that predicts the existence of the damage. These two models predicted accuracy of 83% and 63% for binary and non-binary classification respectively. The project could lead to potential improvements in preparation measures against earthquakes.
